inclination, any meeting with him would have been the last object
“My father is gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my
Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece with a smile, but Elizabeth
They could have been understood only by her mother, who might
Darcy spoke, and in a constrained manner said, “Mr. Wickham is
“That you were gone into the army, and she was afraid had—not
might be copied.”
spared, had not my character required it to be written and read.
for, every view was pointed out with a minuteness which left
her own feelings, followed them in silence. She was overpowered
of her long absence, made her at length return home; and she
Those who chose to be idle, certainly might.”
Rendered spiritless by the ill-success of all their endeavours,
Chapter 7
more birds on the first of September, than any body else in the
open, and she ran into the room. Her mother stepped forwards,
correspondents.”
and his friend! Mr. Darcy danced only once with Mrs. Hurst and
“If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy
“Can you deny that you have done it?” she repeated.
is lately married, and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds,
I suppose, to believe them fond of each other?”
than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as
can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted _there_. You
always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than
assume even the _appearance_ of what is right. His pride, in that
guessed what it meant, and imparted no small degree of her
In a fortnight they were to go—and once gone, she hoped there
their boxes, work-bags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition
William Lucas was his neighbour, till Sir William thus began:
dear, dear aunt,” she rapturously cried, “what delight! what
degree by a distinction so ill applied.
great ladies in general are not more like her. Does she live near
that he should therefore make a point of remaining close to her
information of it.
attached to me. I cannot do justice to his kindness. He meant to
Mrs. Hurst sang with her sister, and while they were thus
and he scarcely opened his lips. The easy assurance of the young
is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than Mrs. Bennet to
In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to
was spent there; and her ladyship again inquired minutely into
affection to myself.”
may be traced to pride; and pride had often been his best friend.
to the enjoyment of all her former dislike.
the object of her happiest thoughts; it was her best consolation
first, and was in a way to be very much in love; but she
Mr. Darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt’s ill-breeding, and
delighted pride she afterwards visited Mrs. Bingley, and talked
husband, who is the son of his late father’s steward, to be his
rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and if that were
to be settled, and Mr. Bennet could have no hesitation in
absurd as he had hoped, and he listened to him with the keenest
pass away without enabling them to enter into something more of
little by starting the idea of his being gone to London only to
Elizabeth was on the point of going away again, when Bingley, who
in summer; the windows are full west.”
than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own.
shall send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you
Elizabeth had settled it that Mr. Darcy would bring his sister to
the bitterest kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time
such an epithet.
not held there in much estimation; for though the chief of his
it. She must own that she was tired of seeing great houses; after
invited only to a family dinner, she would take care to have two
the door, she perceived her sister and Bingley standing together
acquaintance. Mr. Collins listened to her with the determined air
very ill of Wickham. Can you yourself, Lizzy, so wholly give him
dear Jane, I am so happy! I am sure I shan’t get a wink of sleep
went on to the library to write, and the girls walked into the
generally give, had married a woman whose weak understanding and
Bingley replied that he did, and made his congratulations.
“I should take him, even on _my_ slight acquaintance, to be an
live in Derbyshire; and their intimate friends who live in
you have now given me; though I am far from accusing you of
if I was her, I would not have put up with it. Well, my comfort
an excellent manager, I dare say. If she is half as sharp as her
her feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and
for her own visit there to know the rest.
had ever suggested it before, but they felt that there was no
of him.”
despised wherever they are known, and that their sisters will not
of so ungovernable a temper as Lydia; and, removed from the
circumstance been delayed a day!
gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with every thing the
“I do not think we were speaking at all. Sir William could not
“Is it possible?” cried Elizabeth, when she had finished. “Can it
Then turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist
you in the form of encouragement, I know not how to express my
he had been making, and had even vouchsafed to suggest some
to speak with calmness, if he really intended to meet them. For a
obliged to submit, and they took their way towards the house on
Mr. Bingley, I am sure! Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad
inclination to trifle with his happiness. The stupidity with
handsome?”
longer. I pity, though I cannot help blaming her. She was very
some confirmation from what had passed between Colonel
complexion and good-humoured countenance; a favourite with her
anything of which she chose to be insensible, gaily continued,
reproaches to myself. After this period every appearance of
could, she again began the mortifying perusal of all that related
